From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes or weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number two 73. Recorded
live Thursday, June 30th, 2011. Support for
Hanselman is provided by Tellerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottdlerik.com. Can you miss episode,
Scott talks with open source
developers, Anthony vendor horn, and
Nick Molnar about the glimpse
project. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman. This is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And today
it's the glimpse guys. We've
got Anthony van horn and
Nick Molnar on the phone
talking to us about glimpse.
How's it going guys? I
am fantastic. Cause I'm talking
to you guys. My favorite
open source people. I met
you guys, where was that?
Was that mixed? So we
met Las Vegas at the
opensource Fest that mix that
2001. Absolutely brilliant. Yeah, the
opensource Fest was fantastic because
that was John Papa's a
little party that he had
that I personally thought was
going to be very small.
And then when I showed
up, it was full of
just tables and tables and
tables of really, really cool
open source projects. And I
saw finger tracking on connect
and I saw profilers and
libraries and Jason parsers and
all this kind of stuff.
And then Phil hack grabs
me and says, Oh dude,
because he talks like that,
Oh dude, you have to
see this. Oh my goodness.
And I ran over and
he says, check this out.
And then he starts showing
me some stuff that looks
like Firebug basically, he opens
up a pain on his
browser and starts clicking around
on tabs. And I'm like,
okay, that's lovely. You're showing
me Firebug and then he
starts selecting texts over it.
Like he, he selects text
on the webpage and then
drags into that div. And
then I realized that I
was looking at something that
was implemented entirely on the
client side and then my
brain exploded and it leaked
out of my ears and
we all started yelling. And
then you explained what it
was. So one of you
guys, I don't know if
you're in the same room,
maybe you can decide, explain
to me the elevator pitch
for what glimpse is. Sure.
So the elevator pitch for
glimpse is basically a way
to understand what's happening in
your web application, kind of
on the server. So, so
Firebug is a good analogy
from a UI perspective, it
looks very similar and a
Firebug does a similar job.
It gives you information about
what's happening on the client
side, your HTML, your Java
script, your styles limps will
tell you that same kind
of information about server side
considerations, such as which views
are being picked up from
your view engine, if you're
using MVC or what the
request data was, or some
information about your environment, like
what process that's running in
or your configuration. So we
get lots of rich information
that helps us to bug
and diagnose certain issues that
you might have with a
website, or even just find
ways that you can tweak
and performance enhance what's going
on in your site. And
when I saw glimpse for
the first time, I noticed
that there was a whole
series of tabs and then
I clicked on a couple.
And at the time I
was told by the tool
that these things were not
implemented, is it what's the
plugin architecture underneath? Yeah. So
basically what we've got is
out of the box, we've
tried to think of what,
what plugins would be the
most useful for someone who's
working on the, let's say
asp.net platform, because that's what
we decided to target first
and out of the box,
because we both do a
lot of MVC. It was
kind of like we're thinking,
wow, wouldn't it be cool
if we could see, you
know, routes directly in the,
in the browser, you know,
within the context of the
requests that we've just made
or wouldn't it be cool
if we could actually see
the execution pipeline because as
of MVC three, the pipeline
is actually, it can be
quite dynamic in terms of
you've got filters coming into
the equation and, you know,
at a page level at
a global level or a
control level. Sorry. And so
just trying to get an
overall picture of what's actually
going on, it can be
quite tough. And for the
ones that weren't implemented at
that time, probably the trickiest
one for us more from
a UI perspective was a
binding tab. And that was
the primary one that we
had not implemented yet. But
since then, we've actually an,
probably a couple of weeks
after the open opensource we
managed to, I think, get
the UI right on that
one. And so, yeah, that's,
that's what we managed to
implant. And so really everything
that you see there to
date is kind of like,
you know, what have we
found useful in our day
to day jobs? And what
do we think other people,
you know, would find useful
in that context, in terms
of a plugin architecture, we
really wanted to kind of
come up with something that
was really simple, even from
our point of view, because
we have been experimenting with
at the time with different
data that we wanted to
show, you know, different contexts
data. And, you know, I
think it was Nick who
came up with a great
idea that, you know, why
don't we use math? And
it was kind of like
brilliant because then what we
could do is we could
just get people to implement
the standard interface, which is
dead simple. Basically you receive
a HTP context and you
return an object and that's
it. So you can do
whatever you want with height,
speed context. And remember, this
is just on the.net platform.
This is the implementation details
on the.net platform. Will you,
do you like, for instance,
in a routing situation for
routing time, you know, we
just look at, we pull
out all the routing information
that we need and then,
you know, send that, put
that into a dictionary structure,
a structure or an array
structure and return it. And
that's it. The rest of
the grip glimpse framework picks
that up. Okay. Let's, let's
do this, let's back up
a little bit and think
about the, how this thing
is architected and generally how
it works. So what I
do is I go file
new project and I make
an asp.net MVC application. I
go into new get, and
I say, install, package. And
I just say glimpse, right?
Do I have to say
glimpse dot MVC or something?
So you have the choice
where we're leveraging the dependencies
features of new gets. So
you can do just limbs
if you're using a web
forms, projects or Winston ,
if you're doing an MBC
project and that will pull
down the dependency on, on
glimpse by itself, which is
kind of the core engine.
We we'd like to think
of NBC as a plugin
pack that adds additional tabs.
And we, we, we could
foresee us and other people
shipping additional plugin packs to
add more on top of
the framework. Okay. So then
I run my application and
it looks the same, right.
I don't really do I
do I know right off
the bat that I've installed
glimpse, even if I've just
installed it and hit run
or do I have to
turn it on? No. So
that's a good, a great
question. So, so we have
to turn it on. So
we made the decision that
this kind of information, this
diagnostics information that we're showing
shouldn't be there on every
request. It does represent a
minimal amount of overhead for
the request. So we wanted
to find a way that
the, the requester or the
user of the site would
say specifically to give me
this information on every request.
So the way that we've
done that is we actually
use a cookie. And so
it makes setting that cookie
really easily, really easy for
you. We have a HTTP
handler called glimpse about D
so you can browse to
glimpse study XD after you've
installed glimpse to be a
nugget. And there's a giant
button right there that says,
turn glimpse on. That's simply
setting a cookie for you.
Once you go back to
your website, you'll then see
the little, little evil eyes
staring at you of glimpse
that has all the information
that you're Okay. And by
the evil lie, you mean
that there's, there's literally this
kind of little picture of
an eye. It's an all
seeing eye that sits in
the corner of the, of
the browser. And this is
a div, right? This is
a little piece of HTML
and some JavaScript that's been
injected into the page. So
my page should work as
before it shouldn't work any
differently, but you've changed it
dynamically. You've you've done something
on the server side to
inject something in that has
then presented itself on the
client side. Yeah, exactly. So
on the end of the
request, we actually append what
it is we need, which
is just again, through, through
some extension work that was
done with glimpse today, XD
you can actually, if you
just go glimpse today, you
get the configuration page, but
if you go glimpse X,
the question Mark, and use
the query string, we actually
serve up other assets through
that same ASD. And so
in this case, when we
see that the request is
finishing up, we actually inject
lines of JavaScript that we
need to load a glimpse
up. So what you'll actually
see if you've used source
on your request is dynamically
added this HTML, the HTML
elements that will get your
browser to load up glimpse
into the end of your
request. And once that's there
and the client finishes loading,
we use jQuery to detect
when the page is finished
loading, and then we will
add up points. We render
it. And from, from an
architectural standpoint on the client,
the glimpse client is just
a really fancy renderer. I
really think that's the best
way to look at it.
So what we've done is
when we send down the
data from the server of,
let's say the payload, which
is the data that you
want to see, it's, it's
just adjacent or adjacent structure.
It's just J Jason data.
And from that, what we
do is we interpret that
data and render the UI
based on the data structures
that you've used. And that's
what's going on under the
sea, under the hoods on
the client. If that makes
sense. Okay. How does this
div, that renders prevent? I
mean, how do you not
mess up other things? One
of the things that I've
always been surprised about with
glimpses, that I haven't had
any trouble with the different
versions of jQuery that I
use. And I also haven't
noticed that it looks right
everywhere. I mean, somehow no
matter what I'm doing from
a markup perspective, you're not
screwing up my markup and
I'm not screwing up yours.
How, how is that possible?
Yeah, that was a lot
of fun. It wasn't easy.
So to get an initial
cut for the open source
test, we managed to do
reasonably well, but when we've
gone to the plethora of
different websites out there and
we see what people are
actually doing and what they're
doing with their styles, we've
had a pretty tough time.
So what you just to
back up a little bit
and add a little bit
of a story to this,
essentially, when we were looking
at how we wanted to
display the UI originally, we're
actually going to do it
as a Firebug plugin. And
when we were doing that
thought, there was several benefits
to that. The fact that
we wouldn't have to create
any base infrastructure, we were
leveraging something that people already
knew. And, you know, the
majority of web developers use
five again anyway, and that
was a pretty rich platform
to build on. But when
we're actually sitting down and
actually looking to create the
plugin, maybe it was just,
you know, our skill sets,
but it wasn't a simple,
it didn't seem like a
simple endeavor just to create
a, a plugin for a
fire bug. And we thought
that, you know, with them
tying ourselves to Firefox. So
to just to get started,
I think it was me
who just said to Nick,
Hey, let me just, just
let me see what I
can get up and going
here. Let me see if
I can just get some
sort of basic, you know,
HTML injected into the bottom
of the page here and
rendered out. And then later
on, we'll do the proper
version kind of thinking along
the lines of what a
Firebug does, how they got
fired by glide, and then
you've got Firebug proper. And
so let me just see
if I can get this
basic core version out, and
then we'll worry about the
full version later on, because
we're under a huge time
crunch because, and that's another
story, but we wanted to
make something in time for
the open source. We had
five weeks that we gave
ourselves. And so we started
off with this light version
and what I found out
very quickly to come to
tie it back ground was
getting the styling, right? So
that, you know, nothing that
the client was doing was
a real challenge. And when
I looked at how far
by was doing it, they're
actually for fly bug light.
They just have like a
little div at the bottom
of the page that they
then render an eye frame
into. And that I frame,
because it's not part of
the core HTML of the
hosting page, there is no,
let's say a cascading of
the styles down into that
dif so that's how they
get away with it. Whereas
we had already had headed
down the track of just
injecting the HTML. And so
it was like, Ooh, do
we back out and go
to an iframe approach? Or
what do we do? And
so in the end, what
we, what we experimented with
was actually doing a Jew,
like a CSS reset on
a scoped region. So imagine
that instead of just doing
a CSS reset on the
whole page, let's do a
CSS reset for anything within
the glimpse cloth. And so
that's what we did. And
so basically we reset all
the styles. I'm just using
like a basic CSS reset
that is like widely available,
which, you know, if someone's
floating all their dibs to
the left would set them
back so that they're no
longer floating within their scope.
And then we start applying
glimpse specific styles on top
of that. Does that kinda
make sense? No, but I'm
kinda understand though. I can
see the idea of doing
a CSS reset for a
scope region. That's pretty, pretty
interesting actually. But if, if,
how do you keep from
conflicting with other CSS classes
or dibs IDs, things that
I might use, right. What
if I make something called
the glimpse thing? Yeah. So
everything's a prefixed. And so
we've kind of made an
assumption that you're not gonna
have any classes called glimpse
dash something Corolla, and that
you're not going to have
any IDs called glimpse dash
something or other. And so
given that principle, we haven't
been bitten yet by anyone
saying that what the name
of my company is actually
glimpse and you're interfering with
all my classes, but unfortunately,
it's, it's one of the
challenges of developing this kind
of thing for the web
and taking the approach we
have that, you know, there
is a potential that we
could run into someone's toes
at some point. But the
prefix that we've got is,
is serving us pretty well
to start with at the
moment. I see. I see.
So it's, it's, it's a,
you're taking a chance that
some company called clumps international
doesn't really want to jump
in and collide with you,
but ultimately the prefix is
what's saving you. Yeah. And
to answer your question about
the J query, how do
we get away with that?
At first, we may, and
this was in time for
open source Fest. We made
an assumption that, you know,
most people use jQuery as
it turned out later on
that, you know, not everyone
uses jQuery and they were
running into some issues and
we wanted to support those
people. And that there is
still a fair bit of
difference in some of the
versions of jQuery. And so
that presented a particular challenge.
And so what we've actually
done and, you know, I'm
not sure if I'm 100%
happy with the approach, but
it works is that we've
actually taken a copy of,
let's say the jQuery source
code. And we've actually when
needed, we embed it in
our Java script file. And
what we do is we've
purposely to avoid net version
collisions is we've modified that
jQuery source flatly, so that
instead of jQuery, trying to
go window dot jQuery and
owls, trying to override that
we've actually changed a couple
of the variable names that
are scoped at a global
level to be like jQuery,
jQuery glimpse. And the dollar
signs would be dollar sign
glimpse so that we can
actually get that version independence.
Does that kinda make, and
so, yes, I guess in
theory, it could sometimes load
two versions of glimpse on
the one client, which I
guess there is a little
bit of performance overhead of
that, but it's not used
when a normal user is
using your site. It's used
in the context of when
you're wanting to debug and
diagnose a problem that you
have and getting a consistent
experience for people and not
telling them, Hey, you've jumped
ahead. So that in jQuery
versions and we have, or
we've gone further than you
have and having a really
inconsistent experience. That's, that's how
we kind of got to
that point. This episode of
Hansel minutes is brought to
you by careers 2.0 careers,
2.0 is a new service
by our friends at stack
overflow. You're probably all familiar
with stack overflow, the online
Q and a resource dedicated
specifically to programmers and programming
related topics. Well, the team
at stack overflow created careers
2.0 to provide you with
access to great jobs and
introduce you to a bunch
of great companies that you
might consider working for, even
if you're not currently looking
for a job, think of
careers. 2.0 is a programmer
profile, gives you a platform
to show that you're awesome
by featuring your proudest contributions
to stack overflow GitHub SourceForge
Bitbucket, anything programming related, you
can even add your favorite
programming books from amazon.com profiles
on careers. 2.0 are free.
They're easy to get started,
especially by importing your LinkedIn
profile. However, there's one catch
profiles on career 2.0 or
invite only they did this
to keep out the spam
and have a high quality
environment. Fortunately, for you as
a Hansel minutes listener, I've
got your back head on
over to careers dot stack
overflow.com/h M to accept your
invitation today, once again, that's
careers dot stack overflow.com/hm. I
hope you like it. Okay.
Let's, let's shift to the
service side because the thing
that's most interesting about glimpse,
I think we, once you
move past how you use
HTML and jQuery is the
relationship between the server and
the, and the, and the
client, because glimpse gives you
insights into what's going on
on the server. That is
disturbing to me because it's
just a huge amount of
information. It's almost as if
you guys have said, let's
just show them everything. Like
every single piece of data
that is available on the
server. You're, you're, you know,
you're looping through all the
different collections that have anything
interesting, and then organizing it
in a very neat way
on the client. It seems
like one, a huge amount
of information. And to, is
that not a little invasive?
Isn't the word? Is it,
is it a little slow
To do all that on
every single call? I want
to understand how you're getting
all that information, like where
your hooks are in and
how you're moving it to
the client. And, you know,
if I should worry about
all that pile of information
that you're sending back and
forth. Yeah. That's a, that's
a great question. So the
server side architecture, you know,
so the plugin architecture sits
on top of methods as
Anthony had already mentioned. And
so Of course, pain managing
sensibility framework. Oh yeah. I'm
sorry, man. It's testability framework.
So there's really two main
pieces to glimpse. We have
in our HTTP handler, which
we already discussed is where
you go to turn on
glimpse. And that's also kind
of the end point that
we have access to, to
serve up any other resources
like our icons or our
JavaScript file, et cetera, et
cetera. And then we also
have this HTPB module. Now
the module, we try to
be very, very efficient inside
of there because that's really
kind of, what's scraping all
of the information out of
the runtime during our request
to put together the Jason
blog, but the client will
later render. So what we
haven't done is we have
an entire pipeline of what
we call validators and that
basically bales out of glimpse
doing any work, as soon
as we know we should
bail. So for example, as
soon as we know what
the content type of request
is, if we're returning an
image loose, can't really help
you out with your images
and we're going to bail.
But if you're returning text
slash HTML, then we know
that there's some work that
we can do there. Cause
you're probably running through a
view engine or something like
that. So we've, we've tried
really hard not to just
take all of the data
that we had access to
and dump it out. But
instead tried to solve real
world problems, issues that we've
run into in the past.
I know that I actually
get to teach people how
to use MVC quite often.
And I see them run
into issues with, with routes.
I see them at run
into issues with finding and
understanding child actions and things
like that. So we've kind
of taken some of those
experiences that we've had, plus
a lot of feedback from
the community and, and Twitter
in general and those, those
pieces of information into the
UI. So the way that
we actually hook in really
isn't a Testament to glimpse
at all. It's really a
Testament to some of the
recent work that the asp.net
team has been pumping out.
Really all the plugin points
were there. We didn't invent
anything by any means. So
in general, we, we either
wrap or extend hook points
like the IVU engine or
I model binder, and just
kind of sit in the
middle so we can see
the parameters that are being
passed into those methods by
the framework and the results
that are coming out on
the other end. And then
we throw away any data
that we don't need to
try to things efficient. And
then, and then send that
down at the end of
the response. And are you,
is this all just Ajax
back and forth? This is
all just Jason, like one
giant Jason call or 50
different Jason calls us pushing
information back. That's a good,
that's a good question. So
we are very mindful of
performance, particularly from an HTTP
standpoint. And we try to
reduce the number of HTTP
calls. So as of right
now, and there's some debate
going on internally about whether
or not we should change
this, but as of right
now, when you make a
request, all that we render
out to your page is
two script tags once inline
and basically has the Jason
blob with all the information.
And then the other is
the script tag to go
back and get our, our,
our JavaScript clients. And that
will go through some caching
layer, HDB caching. So you
don't actually have to request
that after the first time.
So there's no Ajax going
on at all to get
the basic glimpse. There are
two tabs, however, that start
to really play into Ajax.
And that's the Ajax tab
and the remote tab, the
way that those work is,
we actually take all the
metadata that we're sending down
on the page response. And
by default, we'll keep the
last 15 requests to the
server in memory. And then,
so for example, the remote
tab, when you only, when
you've selected, it will make
an Ajax request to our
HTTP handler endpoint that I
described earlier and returned back
information about previous requests. So
you can start to maybe
compare the request you just
made with the one that
you made a couple of
minutes ago, et cetera, et
cetera. And then same with
the Ajax tab. If, if
an Ajax request is made
to your server, we can't
append a giant Jason blob
on top of that because
you're probably already returning Jason
or an HTML snippet, something
like that. So instead what
we do is I kind
of like this, I think
it's kind of clever. We
take the ID, the glimpse
ID of the request because
we assign a unique ID
to every request that comes
in. And we add that
to an HTTP header on
the response of your Ajax
request. We can then using
the same HTTP handler endpoint.
You take that ID and
say, give me all of
the metadata for the request
that came in before with
this ID. And then that's
what we render and show
you in our Ajax panel.
So you can then kind
of launch in attached to
that request and see all
those ones from glimpse information
and it's us. Okay. So
this is almost like changing
the channel on a TV
set. You're exactly right. It's
like changing the channel, your
selecting, which requests you want
to look at by default,
we're going to show you
the one that your browser
just made with theirs, but
it could be a one
that JavaScript made on your
behalf via Ajax. It could
be one that was in
the, that you made three
clicks ago. It could be
one that another user entirely
has made. So really interesting
scenario that we haven't documented
well, which will allow for
me to maybe debug something
that's happening on a mobile
device or the glimpse UI
is not necessarily going to
work out. But if I
have a user call me
and say that they're experiencing
a problem, I can watch
them as they're making requests
and attached to one of
their requests remotely and see
what's going on. So it's
just like changing the channel,
except the channels. Here are
our requests over time. Could
I open up multiple windows
and have my main page
in one window and then
some Ajax over in another?
So I don't, I don't
follow you. So you want
to have your mind? No,
but I want to debug
Ajax and I want to
debug my main page at
the same time. Yes. Yeah.
You can do that. So
what you would do is
we actually have a UI
feature that would allow you
to pop glimpse out and
it literally just opens up
an a in a web
browser popup window. So you
can move that over to
one window and then you
can open up the gums
panel and your main page.
And now you can be
looking at Ajax and the
pop out and looking at
the main page and still
on the device. Why do
you think this is? And
this might be a weird
question, but just kind of
came to me. Why do
you think that this hasn't
been done before? That is
a good question. So, you
know, to be honest with
you, I think it has
been done before, not in
this exact implementation obviously, and
not really for the.net community
when Anthony and I were
discussing, starting to build glimpse.
We looked at some other
tools that are out out
and then, and other web
web development frameworks, and a
lot of those frameworks that
have this kind of tooling,
like PHP and cold fusion
have tooling similar to this,
that tooling is because the
server side team of whatever
framework built in some diagnostics
that somebody then later just
went and built a client
for. I feel like that
was the holdup for asp.net.
I don't think there's really
this diagnostics information built into
the framework it was available,
but nobody was collecting it
and gathering it into an
easy to consume format. That's
all we've really done with
glimpse plus a really nice
client and a decent extensibility
model. Okay. How many people
are working on this? And
I'm curious how long it
took. Cause it seemed like,
I think a lot of
people would agree that it
came out of nowhere and
it was great. Well, this
is a, I hinted to
it before, but it was
funny. We were actually standing
outside of a subway and
one night and we were
talking about, you know, cool
things wouldn't we love if
we could have this. And,
you know, Nick started talking
about, well, you know, back
in the day, you know,
when I was doing cold
fusion, you know, we, we
had it too, you know,
where you could actually see
details of your request. And,
you know, I was like,
wow, wouldn't that be cool?
And you know, this was
pretty much probably eight weeks
maybe before open source test
and Oh no, a little
bit before that. And yeah,
it was when we figured
out the John popper had
just announced that, you know,
they are looking for more
projects and missions to open
source fests. So probably before
that we'd spent maybe three
weeks that had maybe been
three weeks since that conversation
outside the subway to when
the announcement of John popper
made. And from when we
knew were accepted, we had
five weeks to finish Gramps
or at least get it
to a decent point that
we could actually demo it
to people. And so we
actually had a very, very
short period of time. And
so from the time you
was five weeks, basically, and
at that point, you know,
glimpse was just get hub
projects. You know, I don't
think anyone was watching it
and we were just doing
our commits and it was
just myself and Nick. And
when we came to open
source Fest, we've literally been
spending every night, probably the
time we got home at
six or seven o'clock until
like one or two in
the morning, trying to, you
know, pump in the functionality
and trying to really get
a compelling experience because we,
you know, we wanted people
to use it. Plus for
ourselves, it was, it was
really going to be a
benefit and then open source
fast, you know, and put
it this way without open
source first. I really don't
know if it would be
where we are today. You
know, that platform I think
is, is a phenomenal idea
for the.net community and probably
other communities as well. Although
I think they've got similar
sorts of things, but especially
for the.net community to showcase
things. And when we went
there, we were totally unknown.
We're an unknown project, but
that didn't, that wasn't the
criteria. You didn't have to
be a known project. You
didn't, you could, you could
just admit, Hey, I've got
this cool concept or the
school project. This is what
it is. I'm happy to
show it. And so that's
what we did. And as
soon as we started talking
to people, it was like,
wow. You know, because they
hadn't seen anything like this
or the dinette platform before,
you know, and it was
like, you know, this is
really cool. And it's really
simple to put in my
website. I don't need to
change anything, which is one
of our leading principles. Unfortunately,
you still need to make
a slight modification to your
web conference to say that
you want glimpse turned on,
but you know, besides that,
it's not like I've got
to change, you know, what
handlers I'm using or, you
know, what implementation is, you
know, I view you using
for, you know, MVC or
whatever else. It just works.
And I think, yeah, when
that clicked for people that,
you know, here's data, that
was extremely difficult for me
get to see in aggregate
before in summary before. And
I'm just seeing it now
for every request and I've
had to do nothing except
references DLL. I think that
really resonated with people. You
know, I remember when Phil
hack was walking around the
tables and, you know, I
purposely walked over and grabbed
him and said, Hey, I
think, I think you'll find
this interesting. And you know,
it was so funny because
he took like, it was
30 seconds of me talking
and him looking at the
example that will shine and
it just clicked. And, you
know, I think he was
pretty excited or he seemed
pretty excited at that time.
And I think that's when
he said I'll be back.
And that was when he
went, ran over to you
and why quiet within a
very short period of time,
much shorter than I expected.
You just got it. And
you just, you saw the
value of it and, you
know, and that's why I
think it really took off.
And the other thing that
really helped was new, good
as a platform, you know,
it was the right delivery
mechanism at the right time.
And, you know, the fact
that people could just go,
they could find it and
just through visual studio, just
add it to add it
to their project that just
worked. And so I think
people really loved that. Very
cool. Very cool. And in
terms of contributors, Nick. Yeah.
So Anthony and I have
done, you know, a lion's
share of the work, especially
in those five weeks for,
we didn't get a ton
of sleep before open source
Fest, but we've had great
community support. So actually the
night of open source first,
a guy came up to
us and said, Hey, I'm
not really a developer, but
what you guys are doing
looks awesome. Can I make
you a logo? And so
literally that Monday night, we
were up with this guy
until about two in the
morning, his name's David Stubbs.
And he put together what
I think is a pretty
kick butt glimpse logo. We've
had another gentleman named Peter
Handorff who has done a
fantastic job writing documentation for
us and contributing that back
to the website. Since you
said you'd love glimpse, but
thought, you know, it needed
better documentation. And we completely
agreed. We actually have a,
I don't know, I would
say a decent ecosystem built
around glimpse as well now.
So I'm looking, I'm looking
right now and, and new
get that Oregon. There's, there's
eight to 10 different plugins
for glimpse available to download.
I know about at least
three or four others on
different sites. And so somebody
like Stephen Lauer's who built
a Elmo plugin for glimpse.
So you can see all
of the Elmos information right
in the glimpse UI, that's
come back and even worked
with us to say, Hey,
you know, it'd be really
great if glimpse supported paging
of data. And so we're
trying to find a nice
generic way to fit that
into the framework and move
forward with that. So we're
getting some pretty good contributions
from the community, whether directly
to the court or just
to the ecosystem and adding
their own plugins. And w
it will be seeing versions
of limps for all other,
other platforms that aren't asp.net.
At some point, it sounds
like too. Yeah. So essentially
what we've done is at
its core, if we, if
we go really pie in
the sky and think about
what glimpse is, the way
we like to think about
it is that it's just
a framework. It's a framework
that people can develop plugins
for. And that if those
plugins return a particular data
structure, which is, which is
all documented and, you know,
which renders out in the
glimpse protocol, which the glimpse
protocol isn't anything fancy or
whatever else, it's more like,
Oh, data in the fact
that, you know, odometer is
just a set of conventions
that allow you to interpret
meaning from, from the data
that's present. So if we
see a plain Jason object,
that's been that's in the
data packet, that's been sent
down to the client, we'll
just render it as a
key value table. If we
see a complex array of
arrays, then we'll display it
as a, you know, multi
column table. So it's just
this framework. And if you
send down the data in
this format, the client will
render it out. Okay. And
you get that for free.
So that's what makes it
really easy for people to
develop plugins under, under.net because
of map particularly makes it
really easy for us to
pick up extensions and whatever
else. Now, I think that
concept of having something that,
you know, an overarching framework
that facilitates people easily writing
plugins, and then this overriding
framework loops through those plugins
and says, what data do
you have available for me?
And then serializes that into
Jason and includes it as
part of the payload and
then uses the same generic
UI that we have. That's
that's w to me, at
least that makes a lot
of sense on other platforms
as well, because even though
we've mentioned that PHP may
have some more sorta tooling
or whatever else, you know,
they don't seem to be
as rich necessarily as what
glimpses or necessarily targeted the
same way as glimpses, you
know, in terms of overall,
you know, diagnostics and, you
know, debugging. And so that's
what we really, you know,
we've started, you know, to
really look at is, you
know, well, is there a
good story that we can
provide, let's say for no
JS, you know, could someone
or us develop, you know,
that frame or that overarching
framework that queries a bunch
of plugins and says, what
data do you have for
me? And then includes that
as part of the payload.
And once that's developed for
that platform, it doesn't matter
what, you know, MVC framework
they happen to be using
in node or whatever the
flavor of the moment is,
or whatever else it's really
simple architecture that people can
plug into. And to me,
that, and to Nick, that
seems to make a lot
of sense. And so at
the moment, our focus has
definitely been on.net, but, you
know, we've had interest from
people who are like, you
know, when is this coming
to PHP? When's this coming
to Ruby on rails? You
know, I want, I want
the exact same ease of
creating a plugin that I
have under.net. Go ahead. And
as I do in PHP
and, or no JS, and,
and that's a story that
we're really interested in and
one that we're trying to
get traction on as well.
Well, cool. This is a,
it's a very exciting time,
and I'm glad that you
guys have had such success.
And I was happy to
be a very small part
of that, and I wish
you all the best. Thank
you very much. Remember folks
can check out glimpse at,
get glimpse.com and it'll have
a little video there, and
it will explain how to
get this installed using nougat.
And thanks again, this has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes, and we'll see you
again next week.